h1. Calculator Example

This project contains Cucumber features for the Calc project.
There are step definitions in both C# and Ruby.

h2. C#

The C# step definitions require Cuke4Nuke and MRI to run. You don't need IronRuby for this.
This is the fastest option.

h3. Install MRI and Cucumber

Download and install "Ruby 1.8.6-26 Final Release":http://rubyforge.org/frs/?group_id=167&release_id=28426
Make sure Ruby's <code>bin</code> directory is on your <code>PATH</code>.

Then, open a command window and install the required gems:

<pre>
gem install cucumber json win32console --no-ri --no-rdoc
</pre>

Leave the command window open.

h3. Build Calc.sln

Open up the solution in Vidual Studio (Express) and build it.
The solution contains both the Calc project and the CalcFeatures project.

h3. Start Cuke4Nuke

Open another command window, cd to the directory of this README.textile file and start Cuke4Nuke:

<pre>
..\..\Cuke4Nuke\Server\bin\Release\Cuke4Nuke.Server.exe -a CalcFeatures\bin\Release\CalcFeatures.dll
</pre>

h3. Run Cucumber

Return to the command window you used to install the gems. We have to work around some small wrinkles:

<pre>
chcp 1252
</pre>

Now, set your command window's font to a TrueType font, such as Lucida Console. See "troubleshooting":http://wiki.github.com/aslakhellesoy/cucumber/troubleshooting
for more info about why you need to do this.

Now, cd to the directory of this README.textile file and run:

<pre>
cucumber CalcFeatures\features
</pre>

That should be all green and nice. Try to change some of the numbers in one of the <code>.feature</code>
files and run again. You should see red!

Happy cuking!

h2. IronRuby

The other option you have to run Cucumber on .NET is via IronRuby. This is about twice as slow, since
IronRuby takes a while to start, and Cuke4Nuke is faster. So when you use IronRuby you will not use Cuke4Nuke.

h3. Install IronRuby

Just follow the installation instructions over at the "IronRuby web site":http://www.ironruby.net/Download
When you have unzipped the archive, make sure IronRuby's <code>bin</code> directory is on your <code>PATH</code>.

Then, open a command window and install the required gems:

<pre>
igem install cucumber rspec --no-ri --no-rdoc
</pre>

Now, copy the launcher scripts:

<pre>
copy C:\ironruby-0.9.1\lib\IronRuby\gems\1.8\bin\cucumber C:\ironruby-0.9.1\bin\icucumber
copy C:\ironruby-0.9.1\lib\IronRuby\gems\1.8\bin\cucumber.bat C:\ironruby-0.9.1\bin\icucumber.bat
</pre>

(You only have to do this once. If you upgrade cucumber later you don't need to do this again).

h3. Install Wac

There is no ANSI color support for IronRuby, so you need to install "Wac":http://github.com/aslakhellesoy/wac instead.

h3. Build Calc.sln

Open up the solution in Vidual Studio (Express) and build it.
The solution contains both the Calc project and the CalcFeatures project.

h3. Run Cucumber

(You may have to remove CalcFeatures\features\step_definitions\cucumber.wire first).

Now, cd to the directory of this README.textile file and run:

<pre>
icucumber CalcFeatures\features | wac
</pre>

That should be all green and nice. Try to change some of the numbers in one of the <code>.feature</code>
files and run again. You should see red!

Happy cuking!
